اليوم ان شاء الله بنكمل اخر سكشن من شابتر 2

                                      << Threat Hunting Mindset:Digital Forensics >>
رح يركز هذا السكشن على البحث المجهول بالشبكه ولا الذاكره
ولازم تحدد وش البيانات الي تحددها وتركز عليها وتساعدك
such as:
• Application and System Logs
• User Account Activity
• Registry Analysis
• Malware Signatures and Behavior
• Email and Web Content Logs
• Intrusion Detection System (IDS) Alerts 

وهنا عشان تكون Strong Threat hunter 
لازم تكون استباقي وتحلل عشان تعرف اذا كان فيه تهديد وتفحص بطريقتك عشان تحصل الثغره

وبرضو عشان تكون صائد ثغرات قوي لازم بقوه تعرف 
لازم لازم تعرررررف
لغه برمجه* اذا ودك يعني طال عمرك*
OSWAP 10 
تقرا وتكون مطلع على المصادر الموثوقه 
تشوف writeup
وتقراه بعد ما تخلص تقفله يرحم امك ما تنقل لازم تجرب بنفسك 
واذا كان عندك قدره تتعلم : Reverse Engineer , Binary Exploitation 
بتفرق معك كثير

 بس كذا ؟ هو مبدئياً 
بعدين يبدا الشغل عليك انك تفحص بشكل يدوي وما تقول والله جاني مكرر بوقف لكل شخص طريقه فحص معينه
وكل ما تجرب بتصير احسن من قبل

خلصنا لا باقي

عندك طريقتين تمشي معها لا جيت تفحص
1. Attack based hunting
2. Analytics-based hunting

Attack based hunting  
هنا يبدا الفن حقك                                                                    
تبحث عن ادله او اتاك محد جربه قبلك 
على wininit.exe
نقدر نعرف الاسلوب ذا بسؤال
“Did …….. happen in my network”?

Analytics-based hunting
definition : advanced analytics to proactively detect potential threats in a computer network
by analyzing large datasets and identifying patterns of malicious activity.


The data utilized in either of the hunting methods can be 
split into 3 
1. Point in Time 
2. Real-Time                   اعتقد ما يحتاج افصل فيها واضحه ان شاء الله
3. Historic 


Simulation attacks
APT Simulator - fligtsim -atomic redteam -purple sharp -MITRE CALDERA -VECTR 
وهنا خلصنا الشابتر 2

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      
                                                  * Threat Hunting Professional *

                                         << 3.2 Threat Intelligence Reports and Research >>

لازم تقرا ريبورتات لثغرات صارت لشركات او تقرا عن CVE 
وفي مصادر توفرها لك  
• FireEye ^_^ احسنهم 
• Verizon
• TrustWave
• CrowdStrike
• Palo Alto Networks
• Cylance
• F-Secure

اذا قريت ريبورت تسال نفسك عشان تساعدك تختصر الوقت وتسوي تطابق مع شغلك
• how was the objective achieved?
• What can we do to detect this activity?
• Is this similar to previously known activity?


                                                << 3.3 Threat Sharing and Exchanges >>



                                                  << 3.4 Indicators of Compromise >> 


Try again
Indicators of compromise (IOCs) are “pieces of forensic 
data, such as data found in system log entries or files, that 
identify potentially malicious activity on a system or 
network.

وش فايدتها طيب؟
تساعد المنظمه انها تراقب المؤشرات وتكتشف الثغرات قبل ما يصير Incident or Threat

مثل OPENIOC developed by FireEye 
and YARA Tool by uesing for helping malware researchers to identify and classify malware samples


وكذا خلصنا الجزء النظري ونخش على العملي


نحمل الادوات على اجهزتنا ولا تستخدمها جاهزه ب INE 

YARA in kali 

https://fireeye.market/apps/211364 redline
Redline | FireEye Market
Accelerated live response using host data.




https://fireeye.market/apps/S7cWpi9W ioc editor
IOC Editor | FireEye Market
Free editor for Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)

اللاب الاول هو سيناريو لاكتشاف وتحليل برمجيات الضارة
التاسك 1

IOC  

MD5 بنفحص البرامج الضاره ب استخدام الهاش عشان اقدر اجيب تجزئه

بنستخدم Mandiant IOC Editor عشان ننشاء مؤشر التهديد (IOC) باستخدام الهاش وحجم الملف وبعض السلاسل من نتائج أمر Strings

الحين بنسوي Test for IOC with the Redline tool by examining the selected set of hashes and strings

التاسك 2

YARA

بنسوي قاعده بيانات يارا ب استخدام الهاش 
ونختبرها 

التاسك 3

بنراجع القاعده ليه؟ عشان يطلع لنا اشياء بالكشف افضل وتفيدينا
Using yargen.py كيف؟ 

التاسك 4

والحين نسوي لها RUN مره ثانيه 


Key Takeaways:

Emphasizes the importance of testing IOC and YARA rules to ensure effectiveness in detecting targeted threats.
Caution is advised when balancing the number of signatures in IOC and YARA rules to avoid false positives.
The example demonstrates how to enhance detection capabilities by refining a YARA rule based on test results.


وخلصنا العملي
وخلصنا الشابتر 3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                               * Threat Hunting Professional *

                                                    << 4.1 MITRE ATT&CK >>

